mention that statement from the Qatari
government uh confirming the truce deal
this it this is what it had to say the
humanitarian pors will also allow the
entry of a larger number of humanitarian
Aid convoys including fuel for
humanitarian needs Kata reaffirmed its
commitment to ongoing efforts to
deescalate tensions stop the Bloodshed
and protect civilians it also said it
appreciates the efforts of Egypt and the
United States in reaching this agreement
let's go to alzer's John hendin to get
the view from the states he's live in
Washington DC John so as we've been
reporting the Israeli cabinet finally
approving this deal presumably this now
takes some pressure of the Biden
Administration the US has a lot riding
on the deal doesn't
it that's right Biden's polls have been
plunging in the US Americans are not
happy with how he's been dealing with
the situation although initially they
were very favorable to a
pro-israeli response that has changed
over time as have us demographics there
is a a larger arab-american population a
larger Muslim American population and
there have been major protests
throughout the US so the Biden
Administration has been saying that they
improved the deal here we had uh a thank
you from Israeli Prime Minister Benyamin
neton Yahoo to the White House
Administration saying that they actually
made things better and the White House
has a direct interest here among those
50 or so hostages I'm sorry captives to
be released over the four days there are
three Americans and one of them is a
three-year-old who has a birthday on
Friday so the Americans have been
working very aggressively to try to get
this deal through and for Biden it
matters because
he his poll numbers have been falling
among Arab Americans among liberal
Americans among a great number of
Americans and that's important because
he was only leading his uh presumed
opposition leader that is Donald Trump
the former president a republican by a
couple of percentage points and that
that number has gone upside down so
Biden has been behind not that that's
the only important thing going on here
but it has affected the 2024
presidential campaign the White House
says that is not what is driving them
but they say that they have aggressively
tried to pursue the release of hostages
mind you this is only women and children
that we are talking about and according
to axios the website um we have the
American Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin who is going to go back to the
region for a fourth time sometime
between Thursday the Thanksgiving
holiday
and Tuesday which is a NATO meeting and
he's going to try to increase the number
of captives who are released here but
the US has been very happy that this is
happening and they're particularly happy
with the pause and hostilities that
Israel has agreed to right John and
we're just hearing on the news wires uh
President Biden saying the deal should
bring home additional American hostages
I understand you've been talking to a
senior Us official and he's been telling
you what what the US's involvement has
been in these
negotiations that's right the US says
that they have been aggressively pushing
for an increase both in the amount of
time that the hostilities are paused and
in the number of captives to be released
and they say that they have been
aggressive in increasing the number of
captives who would be released with
Kamas um also uh the US has apparently
given a a list of places to avoid
humanitarian sites uh for Israel among
those were the alifa hospitals uh the
hospital rather and uh Israel has
apparently chosen to ignore that saying
that they believe that there is Hamas
activity some kind of Hamas compound
beneath that complex but the US has been
pretty aggressive in in pushing forward
a number of sits that they say should
not be attacked but we are told that
they have not presented in such a way
that this is a no target list this is
just a series of Suggestions by the US
and by all accounts Israel has decided
that it will choose its own targets okay
thank you for that alas uh John hendin
there for us in Washington DC let's
speak to Dove Waxman he's a professor of
Israel studies and political science
UCLA he joins us live from Los Angeles
thank you for your time so more details
now emerging off this deal what is your
reaction to what we've heard so
far well I'm very happy to hear this
news I I think this is really the first
piece of good news we've had in six
weeks of heartbreaking tragedy so um it
will save lives it will save Palestinian
lives it will save uh quite likely the
lives of Israeli hostages as well uh it
will allow for more humanitarian Aid to
reach uh uh Palestinian civilians in
Gaza which is desperately needed um and
it um will also allow for the release of
Palestinian children from Israeli
prisons which I also welcome what do you
make of the US's involvement throughout
this entire Saga and particularly
through these negotiations I mean
Netanyahu before he went into the
cabinet thanked President Biden for
making the deal sweeter for the is
Israelis how significant do you think
that is
well it does seem that I mean it's hard
to know because obviously people have
been pointing out that there was
potentially a deal on the table uh
before now which Israel didn't accept so
I think it serves netanyahu's interest
to make clear that he kind of um got the
best deal possible and also to thank
President Biden uh politically that's
helpful given the fact that I think the
president is under growing pressure um
for his support for Israel um and so
Netanyahu is in some sense trying to
repay some of the favor that President
Biden has has shown him over these last
many weeks now the Israelis have made
clear that the fighting will resume what
do you think a pause will mean in terms
of the tempo of Israel's military
operations well that's the million
dollar question I mean there's going to
be a pause in the fighting while or
there likely will be if this deal goes
through of course uh it hasn't happened
yet it could still fall apart but if it
does happen the way the deal is
structured with the kind of gradual
incremental release of hostages I think
that's going to ensure uh that there
will be this pause in the fighting the
pause can be extended if Hamas releases
additional prisoners so it could go on
longer than a five-day pause um and I
think there's going to be growing
International pressure on Israel to uh
to extend it into a permanent ceasefire
uh prime minister Netanyahu has made it
very clear that he objects to that and
that he will uh press on uh with
Israel's military campaign after this
pause ends but there's certainly going
to be more pressure on the Biden
Administration and on the Israeli
government to extend this and to bring
all the hostages home well nety also
faces domestic pressure doesn't he I
mean a pause in the fighting how how's
that going to change the political
Dynamic for
Netanyahu well on the one hand this deal
alleviates some of the domestic pressure
he's been facing from the families of
the hostages and he's been under really
growing pressure to to bring at least
some of those hostages home so it eases
some of that domestic pressure but the
Israeli public still um overwhelmingly
demand Hamas to be defeated and really
eradicated in the Gaza Strip um and I
think prime minister Nyah who really has
no choice uh but to heed to that demand
and think I think it's very likely there
for that Israel will resume its war
after this poor ends uh because that's
what the public Israeli public is
demanding uh you you said a little
earlier that we still don't the deal has
not happened as of yet we haven't had
the exchanges take place uh what do you
think could stop a deal from going
through well I think it's clear now on
the Israeli side that was one question
whether the Israeli cabinet would would
agree to us and now that they have on
the Israeli side it's clear I think on
the on hamas's side it's clear as well
um but until it actually happens I mean
we've seen other kinds of uh trues
between Israel and Hamas fall apart um
things can happen on the ground so I
think uh you know it's wise to be
cautious until we see those uh those
hostages uh start to be released and we
also need to make it clear that that the
Israelis actually are going to cease all
of their military activity in the Gaza
Strip they're not going to withdraw uh
their soldiers from the Gaza Strip but
they are uh promising to cease military
activity and that is also a challenge
given the fact that in addition to Hamas
there's also other uh groups like
Palestinian Islamic Jihad that hold
hostages as well as um some others um
and so you know there's other groups
that could Scuttle this agreement if if
if uh if if they want to U but I think
it's very likely to go forward at this
point okay good to speak to you and get
your perspective do Waxman professor of
Israel studies and political science at
UCLA